---
layout: post
title: GUI-like Vim without GVim.
excerpt: "GUI-like behavior with vanilla Vim."
author: jamie_oaks
tags: [computing, linux, vim, ubuntu]
comments: true
image:
  feature: header-misty-mangroves.jpg
  credit: Jamie Oaks
  creditlink: http://phyletica.github.io
---

For reasons [discussed previously][1], I left the world of Macintosh operating systems and started my new binary life in the land of Linux. Specifically, [Ubuntu][2]. I love my new environment, and will never go back. However, this transition left me running [Ubuntu][2] on hardware that is relatively hostile to non-OSX operating sytems---a MacBook Pro.

Overall, I am very impressed at how smoothly [Ubuntu][2] runs on the laptop, however, there was one annoying graphical quirk: The GUI version of `vim` would frequently freeze up when launched. Not a huge problem, because there is, of course, the good ol' dependable vanilla `vim`. However, one feature I did miss from using the GUI version was launching a separate window, which preserved my current `bash` window. I found myself often opening a separate terminal window just to launch the command-line `vim`, which was a bit cumbersome.

## The Solution

To create the GUI-vim-like behavior of launching a separate window and preserving my place in `bash` terminal, I added the following alias to my `bashrc`:

{% highlight bash %}
    alias mvim='gnome-terminal --working-directory=`pwd` --execute vim "$@"'
{% endhighlight %}
    

This allows me to call up `vim` as usual, for example

{% highlight bash %}
    mvim `find . -name "*.py"`
{% endhighlight %}
    

and everything pops up in a new terminal window, just like if I had used `gvim` or `vim -g`, but without the freezing problems. This, of course, will only work if you use `gnome-terminal`. There is the added bonus that `mvim` is still in my muscle memory from using MacVim. Also, there are a few reasons I actually prefer working in the CLI version of `vim` over the GUI version, so I suspect I will continue to use the alias even after I get a non-Mac machine.

 [1]: {{ site.baseurl }}/dismounting-lion/
 [2]: http://www.ubuntu.com
